The next decision to make is the type of
authentication to use in the application.
JHipster presents you with three options to choose from.
Let's look at the details for these.
JHipster supports two categories of authentication, stateful and stateless.
Let's look at the stateless options fist.
JSON web token, or JWT, is the first option for stateless authentication.
JHipster provides support for this authentication type
through an open source project called Java JWT.
Authentication occurs through a secure token that holds
the user's login name and authorities.
The token gets signed, so it can't be altered by the user.
For this option, a secret key is configured via properties.
The second option for stateless authentication is OAuth2.
JHipster provides support for this authentication type
through the Spring Security library.
This approach requires several database tables to store security tokens.
Similar to JWT, a secret key is configured via properties.
While these two options could be considered viable,
in this course I'll be selecting the third option.
HTTP Session-based authentication is implemented by
JHipster via the Spring Security library.
It's the most common approach for Spring Security implementations.
On top of the Spring Security features,
JHipster provides additional support for remember me functionality,
session hijacking protection, and CSRF protection.
Let's look at some more details around HTTP Session-based authentication.
There are three key features that JHipster generates for
HTTP Session-based authentication.
First, you get built-in account management.
This comes in the form of out of the box views,
like the login page, registration page, and password reset page.
JHipster starts you with a full configuration for Spring Security
that includes secured access to web pages and APIs.
It also defines some of the features mentioned earlier,
including remember me, and protection from CSRF and session hijacking.
Finally, JHipster starts you off with a set of rules and user accounts.
These are maintained in database tables that are
generated for you and managed by Liquibase,
which I'll cover later.
For me, this feature alone is a key differentiator from other scaffolding tools.
Security is one of the most important aspects of an application,
however,
it's also the feature that I see the most inconsistently
implemented from project to project.
Just being able to start with this foundation should be a huge
improvement for your productivity and your quality.
Now that we know what gets generated for HTTP Session-based authentication,
let's select it.
I've opened back up Windows PowerShell,
and I can now select my authentication type.
So I'll go down to HTTP Session Authentication, and I'll select it. With that decision made, next up are the options for the database.